303.1.2 - Practice Assignment
Core Java - Variables
Canvas Submission Guideline:
Points:100
Assignment Type: Non-graded (This assignment does not count toward the final grade.),  Complete/Incomplete
Submission Type: 
Document File or Source Code Files
Instructions: Please include the following deliverables in your submission -
Please submit your source code using the Start Assignment button in the top right corner of the assignment page in Canvas.
 
Begin
Create a Java Project in eclipse called CoreJavaBasics. In the src folder, make a package and name it com.perscholas.java_basics. Create a class with a main( ) method to run the following exercises (You may name the class whatever you like. Examples: JavaBasicsClass, HomeClass, IndexClass, PracticeClass, etc.).
 
Write a program that declares 2 integer variables, assigns an integer to each, and adds them together. Assign the sum to a variable. Print out the result.
 
Write a program that declares 2 double variables, assigns a number to each, and adds them together. Assign the sum to a variable. Print out the result.
 
Write a program that declares an integer variable and a double variable, assigns numbers to each, and adds them together. Assign the sum to a variable. Print out the result. What variable type must the sum be?
 
Write a program that declares 2 integer variables, assigns an integer to each, and divides the larger number by the smaller number. Assign the result to a variable. Print out the result. Now change the larger number to a decimal. What happens? What corrections are needed?
 
Write a program that declares 2 double variables, assigns a number to each, and divides the larger by the smaller. Assign the result to a variable. Print out the result. Now, cast the result to an integer. Print out the result again.
 
Write a program that declares two integer variables, x, and y, and assigns 5 to x and 6 to y. Declare a variable q and assign y/x to it and print q. Now, cast y to a double and assign it to q. Print q again.
 
Write a program that declares a named constant and uses it in a calculation. Print the result.
 
Write a program where you create 3 variables that represent products at a cafe. The products could be beverages like coffee, cappuccino, espresso, green tea, etc. Assign prices to each product. Create 2 more variables called subtotal and totalSale and complete an “order” for 3 items of the first product, 4 items of the second product, and 2 items of the third product. Add them all together to calculate the subtotal. Create a constant called SALES_TAX and add sales tax to the subtotal to obtain the totalSale amount. Be sure to format the results to 2 decimal places.
 

